Create RavenDB Gateway 1 to 2 upgrade guide (#5559)
Particular/docs.particular.net: persistence/upgrades/ravendb-gateway-1to2.md

---
title: NServiceBus Gateway RavenDB Persistence Upgrade from 1 to 2
summary: Migration instructions on how to upgrade NServiceBus.Gateway.RavenDB 1 to 2
component: GatewayRavenDB
related:
- nservicebus/gateway
- nservicebus/gateway/ravendb
reviewed: 2021-11-25
isUpgradeGuide: true
upgradeGuideCoreVersions:
 - 7
---

## Cluster-wide transactions support

> Starting with NServiceBus.Gateway.RavenDB version 2, the gateway persistence supports RavenDB cluster-wide transactions. RavenDB 5.2 or greater is required for both the RavenDB client and server. Cluster-wide transactions support is disabled by default. To enable it, configure the persister like follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NServiceBus.Gateway.RavenDB version 2 supports cluster-wide transactions. RavenDB 5.2 or greater is required for both the RavenDB client and server. Cluster-wide transactions support is disabled by default. To enable it, configure the persister like the following:
```

> ```

Reviewer: This should probably be a snippet no?

Author: We don't usually do snippets in upgrade guides, but in this case, it's an easy one.

Reviewer: That is new to me. Maybe I've only seen old examples like https://github.com/Particular/docs.particular.net/blob/master/Snippets/ASB/ASB_9/Upgrade7to8.cs. Then don't bother Mauro.

var ravenGatewayDeduplicationConfiguration = new RavenGatewayDeduplicationConfiguration((builder, _) => 
{
   //create and configure the RavenDB document store.
})
{
   EnableClusterWideTransactions = true
};
```

> If the persister is configured to connect to a database, whose replication factor is greater than one, and cluster-wide transaction are not enabled, the persister will thow the following exception:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the persister is configured to connect to a database, whose replication factor is greater than one, and cluster-wide transaction are not enabled, the persister will throw the following exception:
```
